# Welcome to WillSmith browser tutorial!

This tutorial should give you the foundation of navigation and usage of this software

# Main interface

There are 3 main parts of the interface: status bar, page display and command line. The latter is used for interacting with the interface - all the motions are commands. 
For example, ':r' will reload the page. The empty or invalid command will rerender the page.

# Navigation

Depending on the screen size you are using you might need to scroll up already. You can do it with '/' command.
If you want to scroll down, use '\' command

# Status bar

The status bar is separated in different spaces. Let's go through all of them in order:
- URI - the website you are reading now. The browser supports reading text files, which is indicated with file:// protocol
- Position - this string contains the position of the view on the page. The formatting is as follows: <top line>-<bottom line>/<Total lines>
- History - the depth of the history. If this value is greater than 0 you can go back.
- Window size - the size of the screen in symbols. Format:<Width> x <Height>
- Name of the software + version

# Navigation

There are 2 main intended means of navigations: by name and by index.
If you want to go the page by its URI, you can type it and the browser will navigate you if:
- The link is on the page
- The link you provided is absolute
## IMPORTANT NOTE
For convinience the '/' symbol in the end of a link is NOT the part of the relative link. You should not include it in the link

## Example
=> RelLink.gmi  Try navigating to this page by typing RelLink.gmi
=> file://../StaticPages/Tutor/AbsoluteLink.gmi Try navigating by full link by typing it's URI. Note that it includes the protocol in the beginning

If you want to navigate by index, you can use the ':<index>' command, where the index is the number in the square brackets before the link
## Example
Try navigating to the previous pages by their indexes.

# Misc

- Exiting browser 
To quit the browser, you can use ':q' command or just press <C-c> keys

# Useless information
To understand the controls beter I should share the ideal use scenario of the software. All notes bellow are aimed at the default full-sized QWERTY layout
By design the right hand is lying at the right end of the keyboard. Thus, the index finger is on the '/' key, the millde finger is on the endet and the ring finger switches between '\' and backspace.
By using this, the index finger is near the ':' and '.' keys and the pinky finger is used to press the shift key.
The left hand is used for all the rest which is usually pressing number keys and using a left shift if the pinku finger is not easy to control
